docs/index.rst, before:

.. OpenL3 documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Nov  8 16:31:30 2018.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.
.. |br| raw:: html

   <br />

OpenL3
======

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   tutorial


openl3 is an open-source Python library for computing deep audio and (eventually) image embeddings.

For a detailed description of the models and the methods used to train them, check out the
following paper the following paper:

Look, Listen, and Learn More: Design Choices for Deep Audio Embeddings |br|
Jason Cramer, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Justin Salamon and Juan Pablo Bello |br|
Under review, 2018. |br|


API Reference
=============
.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    api


Contribute
=============
- `Issue tracker <http://github.com/marl/openl3/issues>`_
- `Source code <http://github.com/marl/openl3>`_


Changes
=======
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   changes


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Make use of capitalization of "OpenL3" consistent, and add references to RTD pages

docs/index.rst, after:

.. OpenL3 documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Nov  8 16:31:30 2018.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.
.. |br| raw:: html

   <br />

OpenL3
======

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   tutorial


OpenL3 is an open-source Python library for computing deep audio and (eventually) image embeddings.

The audio and image embedding models provided here are published as part of [1], and are based on the Look, Listen and Learn approach [2]. For details about the embedding models and how they were trained, please see:

Look, Listen, and Learn More: Design Choices for Deep Audio Embeddings |br|
Jason Cramer, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Justin Salamon and Juan Pablo Bello |br|
Under review, 2018. |br|


API Reference
=============
.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    api


Contribute
=============
- `Issue tracker <http://github.com/marl/openl3/issues>`_
- `Source code <http://github.com/marl/openl3>`_



Acknowledging OpenL3
====================

Please cite the following papers when using OpenL3 in your work:

[1] Look, Listen, and Learn More: Design Choices for Deep Audio Embeddings<br/>
Jason Cramer, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Justin Salamon and Juan Pablo Bello<br/>
Under review, 2018.

[2] Look, Listen and Learn<br/>
Relja Arandjelović and Andrew Zisserman<br/>
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), Venice, Italy, Oct. 2017.


Changes
=======
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   changes


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
